Jay: My biggest concern regarding Water Quality in Puget Sound is the disconnect between management and science.
A question that addresses that concern is how do we make communication between scientists and management better?
What are barriers to communications between scientists and Management?
How do we present information so that it leads to action that help us  achieve our restoration goals?
Are managers expecting this OKN to help bridge the communication gap with scientists?
What do mangers need to know from the scientists?
How does management’s interpretation of regulations lead to information being ignored?
Tish: My concern is that we have abundant habitat in the Puget Sound that is free of pollutants?
How do we understand the movement of pollutants in the Puget Sound?
What are key processes in the Puget Sounds that affect the flow of pollutants?
Who researches and models contaminants in the waters of the Puget Sound?
Who are experts on  contaminants in sediment?
Where are pollutants distributed in the Puget Sound?
What are the conventional factors we monitor to assess water quality in the Puget Sound? 
Jim: A major concern is how pollutants impact the health of biota in the Puget Sound.
How do we reduce the impacts of pollutants on biota in the Puget Sound?
What types of pollutants are found in the Puget Sound?
Can we track all pollutants in the Puget Sound?
How do we prioritize the pollutants we should track?
What are the health effects of each type of pollutant on biota in the Puget Sound?
How do EPA Water Quality Standards regulate the presence of pollutants?
Does EPA have Water Quality Standards for all pollutants?
How easy is for evidence from WDFW to set more protective Water Quality Standards?
Do the tribes ally with WDFW to set more protective Water Quality Standards?
Where are the biota that are affected by specific pollutants?
Is there a successful example of when WDFW’s  evidence increases protection for biota?
Jay: My concern is that the communication gaps are between stakeholders and agencies as well as agencies and decision makers.
What are the barriers common tor both divides?
Can decision makers and agencies improve the Health of Puget Sound if the stakeholders are not onboard?
Is all change place-based?
Can agencies and stakeholders together successfully influence decision makers?
How does a process-based analysis of water and sediment flows inform effective restoration decisions for WQ?
My biggest concern regarding water quality in Puget Sound is lack of imagination for integrated watershed restoration design.
How do we train designers of integrated watersheds?
What is needed to restore the functionality of watersheds through Integrated design?
How do we leverage county authority for surface water management?
What is the process for integrating Beavers into floodplain restoration?
How to stop road drainage systems and culverts from concentrating waterflow?
How should we manage human waste?
What politically feasible methods are available to extract Nitrogen from municipal waste streams?
What governing mechanisms do we have to implement integrated watershed restoration design?
Does it make economic sense to extract Nitrogen from tertiary treatment plans?
How do we manage the process of land conversion from wet floodplains to farms to warehouses?
How can we retrofit existing authorities and cash flows and mechanisms so that they function in coordination within a place?
How do we bring management of watersheds to the local level?
How do we gather the data we need for watershed design?
How do create better 3rd level programs to educate watershed designers?
How do we empower schools to educate young people to understand watersheds?
Where are the school-sheds in the Puget Sound basin?
What technologies enable us to map the world in detail and display it on portable devices?
Where are the most effective places to locate flow sensors in a watershed?
Where are culverts located in Puget Sound?
I’m concerned that we are constantly losing knowledge relevant to understanding social ecological systems.
What are digital means to preserving knowledge related to social ecological systems?
Are we generating the knowledge we need to play the roles each citizen needs to play without intermediation?
How might the OKN SDS for WQ enhance the Salish sea Wiki? 
My concern regarding water quality in Puget Sound is Fecal Coliform 
What drives Fecal Coliform contaminations?
Who is affected by Fecal Coliform contamination?
In the Puget Sound, where are the shellfish beds that  Fecal Coliform affects?
How is FC in shellfish beds assessed, monitored and regulated?
How does a shellfish manager get a bed certified as approved for harvest? 
How does FC affect the management of shellfish beds?
How are FC sources identified, located, and mitigated?
Where are the sources of FC in the Puget Sound?
What challenges exist for effective policy and regulation of sources of FC?
What other effects does FC have on WQ in marine waters?
What is the current status and trends in shellfish populations?
What bacteria live in shell fish and effect human health?
My concern with Water Quality is chemical contaminants coming down streams and pipes.
What are the sources of chemical contaminants?
What is the impact of different classes of contaminants on salmon life stages and instream biota?
What are the threshold amounts of exposure to chemical contaminants in people and fish?
Where are PCBs and other toxics distributed in PS?
My concern for Water Quality is ocean acidification.
What is the rate of acidification?
How does acidification impact shellfish and the base of the food chain?
How do population trends of fish and zooplankton correlate to ocean acidification?
What affects the change in the historic distribution of various fish species in PS?
Where in the Puget Sound is Ocean Acidification the worst?
My biggest concern regarding Water Quality in Puget Sound is where to locate different types of projects for best effects on WQ in the Puget Sound
How to simulate the effects of mid scale projects in Puget Sound watersheds using an SDS system? 
What are examples of projects in the Puget Sound?
Where do you get transparent indicator models to evaluate the effects of projects?
How do you calculate the Hydrological Condition Index?
How to estimate “High Pulse Counts” using predictive hydro models?
How do you reconcile data  sets measured at very different scales?
We have to daylight uncertainties and assumptions and leaps in models.
What is the major source of uncertainty in Indicator Models?
How do Water timing and vulnerability of watersheds processes change under climate change.
How should we locate restoration projects under climate change?
How to better estimate the effects of groundwater offset projects proposed under Streams Restoration law?
We need to manage land use comprehensively and at scales that recognizes the pressures that are truly driving change. 
How to extrapolate the Buildable Lands Analysis  beyond its jurisdiction areas to the whole landscape?
What are the effects of high density development on key processes such as hydro?
One of the biggest challenges is to expand the decision space to the fullest extent possible under existing authorities, legislation, codes, and regulations to free up funding and collaboration for more strategic, multi-objective approaches to solving water quality/quantity issues.
How to Expand and revise legislative, legal, policy/ programs, and financial incentives that limit effective, equitable, and economical long term strategies and solutions to water quality.
There is not enough funding available to meet the demands and needs of management and mitigation for water quantity and quality. How do we make the best use of the funds we have available to make the most progress?
New approaches (timely and economical) to monitoring and response to threshold conditions
How do we get to more multi-objective, strategic and system-wide solutions and approaches to water qual/quan issues? 
In what locations, widths,and condition do riparian buffers function to effectively protect WQ 
How do we maintain sustainable agriculture and protect water quality?
How does FEMA Community Rating System interface most effectively with other floodplain uses such as habitat restoration or agriculture?
How can transfer of development rights purchases help new farmers get started in locations where water quality is less impacted?
How does the mix and configuration of small to large farms needed for sustainable agriculture affect water quality?
How does the location, size of farm and crop selection affect water quality?
How to remove inconsistencies in application of codes, statutes and laws that create inequalities and pass water quality/quantity problems to downstream users.
Identify inconsistent and unclear language in existing codes, statutes and laws.
Identify gaps and inconsistencies in regulations across all levels of government
Identify ineffective and unequal regulatory outcomes
How to leverage funding and cooperation to improve water quantity/quality
How do we apply principles of Product stewardship/Circular Economy?
How to prioritize culvert replacements when you don’t have enough money and conditions are going to change?
How will stream conditions change. 
What are the projected ranges of flows under different future scenarios.
Which culverts are already dry at low summer flows?
Can we take the asset management approach to stormwater facilities and apply that to habitat and systems of habitat?
Do we need to think of individual projects or can we put the whole system together and call that the asset?
What low tech methods/approaches are available to monitor micro-changes in water quality parameters [flow or temperature] in order to identify threshold conditions requiring rapid deployment of mitigating actions
What are threshold conditions in water flow or water quality that would require rapid deployment of mitigating actions?
What alternative strategies are there for rapid to near- to long term mitigation of threshold conditions? ‘Go big or go home’; ‘Go small and  repair/replace’
Concern is on water quality, but that is secondary to water flow.
All the money spent on Water Quality will never be enough to make a difference due to unresolved water flow issues. We need political will.
Lack of coordination and science integration across institutions, programs, planning processes, policy, priorities, and funding to effectively address WQ/WQ problems. Need to harmonize understanding, effort and direction.
What is the recovery strategy for  fragmented and degraded drainages now and in the context of future change, both climate and population?
How do we change our narrow  understanding, definitions, and piecemeal approaches to addressing systemic water quality/quantity problems.
Can we mitigate/restore enough to meet Clean Water Act goals with the challenges of population growth?
What is the cost of protecting/mitigating WQ/WQ impacts of full buildout?
What options and solutions are available and possible to leverage money and resources for great alignment and harmonized action?
What information and processes are needed to move politics to better protect WQ/WQ now and into the future?
How do we prioritize restoration dollars and effort in drainages that lack the habitat to meet all the fish life cycle needs and recovery goals today and tomorrow?
What are the science needs and uncertainties relative to policy/decision makers, implementers, the recovery planning processes and the Vital Signs.
How do we Identify, vet, and track the science needs and uncertainties?
Do we know if at a large scale, we can effectively mitigate impacts and restore original hydrologic flows?
Can we build Stormwater infrastructure that is affordable and effective at mitigating future flow issues?
How do we remove the barriers between Land Use Planning and Water Management, especially stormwater
Would it make a difference to have formal guidance on Land Use Planning and Integrated Water Management similar to the Low-Impact Development Guidance Manual.
How do we better protect existing lands given population pressure on local governments and advances in transportation allowing suburban growth
What is needed to collaborate with all land use and transportation involved groups like Councils of Governments on salmon and ecosystem recovery planning?
Are current regulatory programs robust enough to prevent loss of ecological functions including standards, permit review, exemptions, conditions/mitigation, enforcement, and monitoring?
If the Stormwater manual was perfectly executed would it be enough to maintain beneficial uses in streams? 
How would beneficial uses be measured? What water quality parameters would be useful?
What measures or actions would be effective at maintaining beneficial uses in streams and at what cost?
Are there financial incentives that can make up for revenue a local government would receive from development/zoning changes? Is there political will to protect for the future and not pass costs on? 
Are new cross-jurisdictional arrangements possible for exchanging and paying for growth and conservation/restoration?
What liabilities and other responsibilities do local land use and transportation planning have relative to Endangered Species Act and Treaty Rights? 
Research and monitoring needed to track changes in water quality in Puget Sound.
Reduce contaminants and nutrient loading in Puget Sound. 
Low dissolved oxygen (DO) levels in Puget Sound fresh and marine waters.
Water quality effects on salmon, humans, and other biota?
What research, data and models are needed to  improve water quality in Puget Sound?
How does the availability and quality of  data, metadata, and models affect the generation of knowledge about water quality? What data is missing?
How important is organic carbon data and is it available?
What sediment data and modeling from rivers is needed.
Who is doing research on water quality in Puget Sound?
What funding and cooperative research opportunities are happening and needed?
How can the models, methods, data and results of water quality research be shared, compared, and replicated?
Who are the users and stakeholders of water quality models and information?
What user-friendly, interactive information sharing opportunities are available for the public, policy, and management? Need a clearinghouse.
What water quality standards and target discharge levels we should be aiming for?
How does the resolution of data and models match the scale of questions?
What are projected conditions in the ocean and Puget Sound w climate change?
How are and ocean acidification being monitored and modeled?
Where and by how much can we make measurable improvements to WQ?
What are the sources of contaminants and nutrient loading in the fresh and marine waters of Puget Sound?
What management options and new technologies offer cost effective reduction of nutrient and contaminant discharges,
What changes to wastewater treatment would make a difference to water quality?
How much would biological nutrient removal from wastewater treatments make cost effective improvements?
What are existing levels of dissolved oxygen in rivers and marine waters?
What are existing levels of DO in marine waters
What are dissolved oxygen levels under natural conditions in rivers?
What causes dissolved oxygen (DO) levels to drop in rivers?
How much of low dissolved oxygen issues are due to human activity? How much by wastewater treatment facilities?
How do contaminants affect the health of fish, humans and other biota in PS 
What trend data for water quality parameters is needed to estimate key indicators for salmon population
How do salmon populations respond to changes in water quality trends over time?
Can we sort out the effects of single water quality variables on salmon populations?
What are the biological linkages between dissolved oxygen levels and habitat conditions for salmon.
What oxygen levels affect fish physiology, in which ways and at what levels?
My biggest concern regarding water quality in Puget Sound relates to water quantity; that people treat stream flow and water quality as separate realms.
We all assume the highest and best use for the land is forestry; my concern is that current forest management practices don’t sufficiently protect water quality and quantity.
My concern is whether we have the water quantity flows and timing to support water quality at critical times of the year? 
Are current forest practice regulations sufficient to protect water quality in streams? 
How is regulatory effectiveness for water quality protection evaluated?
What forest management  practices would improve water holding capacity and water quantity.
How much have current stream flow measures changed in the Nooksack River Basin from ‘natural conditions’?
How does stand age affect instream hydrology during low summer flows?
How large is the impact of transpirational losses on instream flows during critical times?
How much have water quality measures changed from their values under ‘natural conditions’?
What is the current state of water quality and quantity in the Nooksack River?
What is needed for a comprehensive resilience plan for a watershed under climate change?
What are the components needed for a comprehensive simulation of water and sediment flow in the Nooksack river basin?
What is the impact of CC-driven changes to glaciers on the Nooksack River basin?
What are historic and current land use impacts to water quality in the Nooksack River?
What are the political and policy challenges to effective forest regulations to protect water quality..
What are the political and policy challenges to mitigating legacy and ongoing land use impacts to water quality.
How does the loss of glaciers affect water quantity, stream temperatures, and sediment dynamics?
How can forest harvest plans change snowmelt and snow accumulation patterns to affect instream hydrology and stream temperatures at critical times of the year?.
Can a watershed services exchange provide an economic incentive to support forest management that increases water supply? 
What forest harvest designs best facilitate snow accumulations and later melt?
How does climate change affect temperature TMDLs?
How do TMDLs affect beneficial uses of fish habitat and fish survival?
How do buffer widths change when 100 year site index tree heights based on old growth and mature riparian forest are evaluated as ‘natural conditions’ for temperature TMDLs? 
How does the historic planform of the river affect the amount of shading under natural conditions?
What is the range of depths of the hyporheic exchange zone in the Nooksack floodplain?
How does the definition of ‘natural conditions’ affect the implementation of the Washington Administrative Code addressing water quality standards?
How do we get the agencies to push the limits of their jurisdictional box for better integration and greater effectiveness in protecting water quality.
How do we address the changing probability of sediment producing geologic events (landslides) with projected hydrologic changes due to climate change?
My biggest concern regarding Water Quality in Puget Sound is how we are going to manage water into the future?
How are we going to manage water into the future?
How will the demand for water change?
How to get people to talk broadly about water usage?
What are the regulations currently governing how water is allocated for use?
Does the current allocation approach protect the environment?
How to manage surface and groundwater?
How did the Hirst decision affect water allocation in Washington state?
How did the WA legislature respond to the Hirst decision?
What contaminants affect water quality in the Puget Sound?
What are sources of contaminants in the Puget Sound?
What contaminants are found in stormwater runoff?
How do contaminants affect fish populations  in the Puget Sound?
How does tire dust in stormwater runoff affect salmon populations?
How do pharmaceuticals in wastewater  affect fish populations?
Where should we prioritize population growth in the PS region?
How can we encourage people to avoid critical and dangerous areas? 
How can forestry practices affect water supply in Puget Sound region?
Wildfire in our forests is a concern for me.
How do wildfires affect WQ in the Puget Sound?
Why are wildfires more dangerous now?
Why is it that there are more people in fire prone areas?
How do current insurance policies for housing enable people to live in fire prone areas?
Restoring water processes in the Skokomish basin is a concern of the Skokomish Indian Tribe.
How is the Skokomish Tribe restoring water processes in the Skokomish basin?
How has sidecasting to build forest roads affected sediment in the Skokomish river?
How does working with Tacoma Public Utility which controls the Cushman hydropower Dam help restore water processes?
How do dams affect gravel flow in incising rivers?
How does working with US Army Corps Eng help restore water processes in the Skokomish basin?
How do levee setbacks improve floodplain function?
How does working with USDA Forest Service  help restore water processes in the Skokomish basin?
How do engineered logjams help restore natural gravel conditions in the river?
What work is being done in estuaries to restore water processes in the Skokomish basin?
How to find out about and leverage work done by, and share our own work with, other tribes to restore water processes?
Regulated and unregulated nutrients, chemicals and pharmaceuticals enter Puget Sound through wastewater treatment plants and river discharges from every watershed.
Spending a lot of money and resources to achieve a small amount of additional WQ treatment at the expense of broader goals and more effective solutions
Puget Sound biota are affected by poor water quality? We’re losing the bottom of the food chain.
High instream water temperatures due to low summer flows and lack of shade,  particularly in Snoqualmie Valley
What contaminants are found in Puget Sound and the Snohomish River?
What are the sources of contaminant discharges to fresh and marine waters in Puget Sound?
How is water quality regulated?
What contaminants are regulated and how are they monitored? 
What unregulated contaminants need to be prioritized for monitoring and regulation?
What are the process constraints and resources needed to add new chemicals into regulations?
What are the legal avenues for controlling nonpoint sources of contamination? 
How can we avoid new sources 
What treatment methods and management practices, new approaches and technologies reduce contaminant loads in rivers and wastewater?
What goals and policies provide the best reductions in contaminant loads for the lowest price over the long term?
How can financial incentives be developed that bring new partnerships and creative approaches to reduce water quality impacts and improve treatment?
What is nutrient trading and how can it help reduce inputs? Who is involved?
Who is researching treatment methods for contaminant removal from wastewater and surface water flows.
How effective are microbial treatments in removing contaminants in wastewater? At what scale and cost
What new technologies are available for reducing contaminants in wastewater. What are the issues with integrating them with existing facilities?
Is an Omni Processor a viable option for basins in Puget Sound?
What is the age and condition of existing wastewater treatment facilities across Puget Sound.
What will be the future treatment capability needed to meet population growth.
Can wastewater treatment upgrades incorporate new approaches and technologies economically and effectively
Where are biogas digesters most effective and economical for treating dairy waste and restaurant and grocery food waste. Is farm size a factor?
What contaminants in the water are affecting salmon?
What levels and amount of exposure to contaminants affect salmon? 
Who is doing research on toxic chemicals and salmon?
What toxics in the water are affecting human health?
What toxics bioaccumulate up the food chain and in humans?
How does water quality affect the fish consumption rate?
How is nitrogen loading affecting primary productivity in marine waters? This impacts everything up the food chain and is throwing everything out of balance..